docs/03-declarative-layout.md, before:

# The AwesomeWM widget system

This document explains how to define, place and manage widgets.

## The default widgets

### Widgets

Awesome provides 2 collections of widgets:

 * `wibox.widget`: Generic widgets, containers and layouts
 * `awful.widget`: The Awesome specific widgets


@DOC_widget_WIDGET_LIST@

### Containers

A container is a widget that wraps another widget. It can be used to add
decorations or to modify the content of the child widget.

@DOC_container_WIDGET_LIST@

### Layouts

Layouts are collections of children widgets. They are placed according to
configurable rules.

@DOC_layout_WIDGET_LIST@

### Other

Notifications also have their own widgets.

<img src="../images/AUTOGEN_wibox_nwidget_default.svg" />

More information about the notification widgets can be found on the
`naughty.notification` documentation page.

### The different type of widget boxes (Wibox)

The Awesome API uses the word "wibox" (widget box) to describe an area of the
screen filled with widgets. There are many subvariants of wiboxes with
specialized roles such as widget bars or tooltips. All variants mostly share the
same characteristics, but add some extra features to make those specialized
widget boxes easier to work with.

@DOC_awful_popup_wiboxtypes_EXAMPLE@

The normal `wibox` is the base class for each of these types. It is extremely
flexible and allows to place just about anything on the screen. However it
requires a lot of repetitive boilerplate code to use directly. For example,
the user needs to compute the optimal size by hand or use `awful.placement`.

The `awful.wibar` specialization allows to attach a `wibox` to a screen edge
and prevents clients from using this area when tiled.

The `awful.popup` allows to easily place widgets on the screen. It automatically
resizes itself to fit the optimal widget size. It also has helper properties
and methods to make it easy to place it on the screen. It supports absolute
positioning, relative positioning, and manual positioning.

The `awful.tooltip` is a very simple `wibox` that allows to display text next
to an object such as the mouse.

The `naughty.layout.box` allows to provide custom widgets to use within the
notifications.

Finally, the `awful.titlebar`, while not technically a real `wibox`, acts
exactly the same way and allows to attach widgets on each side of clients.

## The different syntaxes to initiate widgets

Awesome provides 2 totally different API access styles to manage widgets. Both
suit different use cases. Under the hood, both produce the
exact same code. Consider the declarative API to be compiled into the
imperative syntax when loaded. Also note that in contrast to technologies such
as QML, it is interpreted only once and isn't automatically updated when
values change.

The **imperative** widget initialization is similar to QtWidgets, GTK and Win32.
You create the object, then set the property and add the widget as a child to
another already declared widget. It is quite simple to use but very verbose
and full of boilerplate code. The imperative API also offers properties both
with accessors or directly. It is useful when creating highly dynamic layouts
where widgets are added and removed over the course of their lifecycle.

The **declarative** syntax resembles HTML style code
written in JSON or YAML. The widget instances are created automatically and
the hierarchy is related to the table nesting (indentation). It is preferred
when creating static layouts that won't change over the course of their
lifecycle.

Here is the same code written in both the imperative and declarative style

**Imperative with accessors**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.container.background()
    bg:set_bg("#ff0000")

    local tb1 = wibox.widget.textbox()
    local tb2 = wibox.widget.textbox("bar")

    tb1:set_text("foo")
    tb2:set_text("bar")

    local l = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical()
    l:add(tb1)
    l:add(tb2)

    bg:set_widget(l)

**Imperative with properties**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.container.background()
    bg.bg = "#ff0000"

    local tb1 = wibox.widget.textbox("foo")
    local tb2 = wibox.widget.textbox("bar")

    tb1.text = "foo"
    tb2.text = "bar"

    local l = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical()
    l:add(tb1)
    l:add(tb2)

    bg.widget = l

**Declarative**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.widget {
        {
            {
                text = "foo",
                widget = wibox.widget.textbox
            },
            {
                text = "bar",
                widget = wibox.widget.textbox
            },
            layout = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical
        },
        bg = "#ff0000",
        widget = wibox.container.background
    }


The Awesome documentation mostly uses the declarative style for consistency,
but both are **always** available. Note that each style can be mixed with other
styles, but this creates very confusing code and should be avoided.

## Creating and placing widgets using the declarative style

The examples below explain in detail how to use the declarative layout system.
The imperative system is quite self explanatory and the respective widget API
documentation should be enough for most.

### A simple layout

* Display `my_first_widget` only on primary screen
* Display `my_second_widget` only on screen two
* Add a background color to `my_fourth_widget`
* Dispose in a `wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal` layout

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            layout = awful.widget.only_on_screen,
            screen = "primary", -- Only display on primary screen
            my_first_widget,
        },
        {
            layout = awful.widget.only_on_screen,
            screen = 2, -- Only display on screen 2
            my_second_widget,
        },
        my_third_widget, -- Displayed on all screens
        { -- Add a background color/pattern for my_fourth_widget
              my_fourth_widget,
              bg     = beautiful.bg_focus,
              widget = wibox.container.background,
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


This examples uses the `awful.widget.only_on_screen` container to display
widgets only on some screens.

### Composite widgets

@DOC_wibox_widget_progressbar_encapsulation_EXAMPLE@


### Define widgets inline and place them

* Create a `wibox.widget.textbox` with various properties
* Force the textbox size using `wibox.layout.constraint`
* Add a margin around another textbox
* Add a `wibox.container.background` (for visualization)

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            -- Force the textbox to always be 300 pixel long
            {
                {
                    markup = "<b>Hello World!</b>",
                    align  = "center",
                    widget = wibox.widget.textbox
                },
                bg     = "#ff0000",
                widget = wibox.container.background,
            },
            width    = 300,
            strategy = "min",
            layout   = wibox.layout.constraint
        },
        {
            -- Add a border around the background
            {
                {
                    markup = "Foobar",
                    widget = wibox.widget.textbox
                },
                bg     = "#0000ff",
                widget = wibox.container.background
            },
            left   = 10,
            right  = 10,
            top    = 1,
            bottom = 2,
            layout = wibox.container.margin
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


Result:
![Example2 screenshot](../images/widgetlayout1.png)


### Use a `wibox.layout.align` layout
The `wibox.layout.align` is a little different. While most layouts will
ignore any `nil` lines, the `align` layout relies on them so `left`, `middle`
and `right` can be defined.

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        my_textbox1, -- Left
        nil,         -- Nothing in the middle
        my_textbox2, -- Right
        layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal,
    }



### Define new widgets

New trivial widgets can be created directly in the layout declaration. Here
is a simple circle widget:

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        fit    = function(self, context, width, height)
            return height, height -- A square taking the full height
        end,
        draw   = function(self, context, cr, width, height)
            cr:set_source_rgb(1, 0, 0) -- Red
            cr:arc(height/2, height/2, height/2, 0, math.pi*2)
            cr:fill()
        end,
        layout = wibox.widget.base.make_widget,
    }

Result:
![Example4 screenshot](../images/widgetlayout2.png)

For more information about how to draw widgets, refer to the `Cairo` API:

* [Path](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html)
* [Context](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html)
* [Pattern](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-pattern-t.html)
* [transformation](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Transformations.html)
* [Operator](http://cairographics.org/operators/)
* [Pango text](https://developer.gnome.org/pango/stable/)


### Externally defined widgets and layouts

This is useful when the widget is provided by an external module or when it
requires complex manipulations which would make the declaration unreadable.

Code:

    local tb = wibox.widget.textbox()
    tb:set_markup("Hello world! ")

    -- Repeat "tb" 3 times
    s.mywibox : setup {
        tb,
        tb,
        tb,
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }



### Accessing widgets

For each widget or container, it is possible to add an `identifier` attribute
so that it can be accessed later.

Widgets defined using `setup` can be accessed using these methods:

* Avoiding the issue by using externally created widgets
* Using `my_wibox.my_first_widget.my_second_widget` style access
* Using JavaScript like `my_wibox:get_children_by_id("my_second_widget")[1]`

The first method mixes the imperative and declarative syntax, and makes the code
less readable. The second is a little verbose and only works if every node in
the chain has a valid identifier. The last one doesn't require long paths,
but it is not easy to get a specific instance if multiple widgets have the
same identifier.

WARNING: The widget identifier must not use a reserved name. This includes all
method names, existing widget attributes, `layout` and `widget`. Names should
also respect the Lua variable conventions (case-sensitive, alphanumeric,
underscore characters and non-numeric first character).

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            id     = "second",
            widget = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        {
            id     = "third",
            widget = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        id     = "first",
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }

    s.mywibox.first.second:set_markup("changed!")
    s.mywibox:get_children_by_id("third")[1]:set_markup("Also changed!")



### Extending the system

This system is very flexible. Each section attribute (the entries with string
keys) is directly linked to the layout or widget API. When setting the
imaginary `myproperty`, it will first check if `set_myproperty` exists. If it
doesn't, it will check if there is a `myproperty` method. Finally, it will
just set the `mywidget.myproperty` directly in case it is used later or
caught by a Lua `metatable` (operator overload).

Code:

    -- "Monkeypatch" a new function to 3 widget classes to add vicious
    -- extension support
    for _, wdg in ipairs {
        wibox.widget.textbox , wibox.widget.progressbar, wibox.widget.graph
    } do
        function wdg:vicious(args)
            local f = unpack or table.unpack -- Lua 5.1 compat
            vicious.register(self, f(args))
        end
    end

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            vicious = {vicious.widgets.cpu, "CPU: $1%", 3},
            widget  = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


In this example, the system is extended so that the popular
[Vicious](https://github.com/vicious-widgets/vicious) extension module can be
used directly in the layout declaration. This example will update the textbox
every 3 seconds to show the CPU usage.


### Handling sections

The system allows sections to be defined externally, then composed into
the final layout declaration. Here is an example re-using one of the above
example:

Code:

    local circle = {
        fit    = function(self, context, width, height)
            return height, height -- A square taking the full height
        end,
        draw   = function(self, context, cr, width, height)
            cr:set_source_rgb(1, 0, 0) -- Red
            cr:arc(height/2, height/2, height/2, 0, math.pi*2)
            cr:fill()
        end,
        layout = wibox.widget.base.make_widget,
    }

    -- Define a layout with the imperative syntax
    local l = wibox.widget.align()

    -- 3 circle
    s.mywibox : setup {
        circle,
        circle,
        circle,
        l,
        layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal
    }

    -- This can be done instead
    local three_circle = {layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal}
    for i=1, 3 do
        table.insert(three_circle, circle)
    end

    s.mywibox : setup (three_circle)

### Instantiation rules

Whenever it can, Awesome tries to be asynchronous. This can take various form
depending on the situation. For example, the `connect_signal` method allows to
execute code when an event arrives. `awful.screen.connect_for_each_screen` also
allows to instantiate various elements when a new screen is added. In the later
case, it is why some widgets are added as properties to other objects instead of
being global variables like in previous versions of Awesome.

However, there is a case where this isn't enough and another abstract widget has
to be used. This concept is called the `widget_template` and is an optional
property of many widgets such as the `awful.widget.taglist`,
`awful.widget.tasklist` and `naughty.layout.box`. These templates are a
**table** using the exact same syntax as the declarative widgets, but without
the `wibox.widget` prefix in front of the curly braces. These templates
represents future widgets that will be created by their parent widget. This is
necessary for three reasons:

 * The widget must create many instances of the template at different points in
   time.
 * The widget data is only partially available and other fields must be set
   at a later time (by the parent widget).
 * The code is highly redundant and some of the logic is delegated to the parent
   widget to simplify everything.

Commit message:

doc: Modernize the landing page.
The previous index.html was scary and the most useful links were
at the bottom. This commit fixes that.

It also adds an image of the default config with some labels to name
all visible components.

docs/03-declarative-layout.md, after:

# The Widget system

This document explains how to define, place and manage widgets.

## The default configuration

This is what the widgets present in the default configuration are named:

@DOC_awful_popup_defaultconfig_EXAMPLE@

## The default widgets

### Widgets

Awesome provides 2 collections of widgets:

 * `wibox.widget`: Generic widgets, containers and layouts
 * `awful.widget`: The Awesome specific widgets


@DOC_widget_WIDGET_LIST@

### Containers

A container is a widget that wraps another widget. It can be used to add
decorations or to modify the content of the child widget.

@DOC_container_WIDGET_LIST@

### Layouts

Layouts are collections of children widgets. They are placed according to
configurable rules.

@DOC_layout_WIDGET_LIST@

### Other

Notifications also have their own widgets.

<img src="../images/AUTOGEN_wibox_nwidget_default.svg" />

More information about the notification widgets can be found on the
`naughty.notification` documentation page.

### The different type of widget boxes (Wibox)

The Awesome API uses the word "wibox" (widget box) to describe an area of the
screen filled with widgets. There are many subvariants of wiboxes with
specialized roles such as widget bars or tooltips. All variants mostly share the
same characteristics, but add some extra features to make those specialized
widget boxes easier to work with.

@DOC_awful_popup_wiboxtypes_EXAMPLE@

The normal `wibox` is the base class for each of these types. It is extremely
flexible and allows to place just about anything on the screen. However it
requires a lot of repetitive boilerplate code to use directly. For example,
the user needs to compute the optimal size by hand or use `awful.placement`.

The `awful.wibar` specialization allows to attach a `wibox` to a screen edge
and prevents clients from using this area when tiled.

The `awful.popup` allows to easily place widgets on the screen. It automatically
resizes itself to fit the optimal widget size. It also has helper properties
and methods to make it easy to place it on the screen. It supports absolute
positioning, relative positioning, and manual positioning.

The `awful.tooltip` is a very simple `wibox` that allows to display text next
to an object such as the mouse.

The `naughty.layout.box` allows to provide custom widgets to use within the
notifications.

Finally, the `awful.titlebar`, while not technically a real `wibox`, acts
exactly the same way and allows to attach widgets on each side of clients.

## The different syntaxes to initiate widgets

Awesome provides 2 totally different API access styles to manage widgets. Both
suit different use cases. Under the hood, both produce the
exact same code. Consider the declarative API to be compiled into the
imperative syntax when loaded. Also note that in contrast to technologies such
as QML, it is interpreted only once and isn't automatically updated when
values change.

The **imperative** widget initialization is similar to QtWidgets, GTK and Win32.
You create the object, then set the property and add the widget as a child to
another already declared widget. It is quite simple to use but very verbose
and full of boilerplate code. The imperative API also offers properties both
with accessors or directly. It is useful when creating highly dynamic layouts
where widgets are added and removed over the course of their lifecycle.

The **declarative** syntax resembles HTML style code
written in JSON or YAML. The widget instances are created automatically and
the hierarchy is related to the table nesting (indentation). It is preferred
when creating static layouts that won't change over the course of their
lifecycle.

Here is the same code written in both the imperative and declarative style

**Imperative with accessors**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.container.background()
    bg:set_bg("#ff0000")

    local tb1 = wibox.widget.textbox()
    local tb2 = wibox.widget.textbox("bar")

    tb1:set_text("foo")
    tb2:set_text("bar")

    local l = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical()
    l:add(tb1)
    l:add(tb2)

    bg:set_widget(l)

**Imperative with properties**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.container.background()
    bg.bg = "#ff0000"

    local tb1 = wibox.widget.textbox("foo")
    local tb2 = wibox.widget.textbox("bar")

    tb1.text = "foo"
    tb2.text = "bar"

    local l = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical()
    l:add(tb1)
    l:add(tb2)

    bg.widget = l

**Declarative**

Code:

    local bg = wibox.widget {
        {
            {
                text = "foo",
                widget = wibox.widget.textbox
            },
            {
                text = "bar",
                widget = wibox.widget.textbox
            },
            layout = wibox.layout.fixed.vertical
        },
        bg = "#ff0000",
        widget = wibox.container.background
    }


The Awesome documentation mostly uses the declarative style for consistency,
but both are **always** available. Note that each style can be mixed with other
styles, but this creates very confusing code and should be avoided.

## Creating and placing widgets using the declarative style

The examples below explain in detail how to use the declarative layout system.
The imperative system is quite self explanatory and the respective widget API
documentation should be enough for most.

### A simple layout

* Display `my_first_widget` only on primary screen
* Display `my_second_widget` only on screen two
* Add a background color to `my_fourth_widget`
* Dispose in a `wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal` layout

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            layout = awful.widget.only_on_screen,
            screen = "primary", -- Only display on primary screen
            my_first_widget,
        },
        {
            layout = awful.widget.only_on_screen,
            screen = 2, -- Only display on screen 2
            my_second_widget,
        },
        my_third_widget, -- Displayed on all screens
        { -- Add a background color/pattern for my_fourth_widget
              my_fourth_widget,
              bg     = beautiful.bg_focus,
              widget = wibox.container.background,
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


This examples uses the `awful.widget.only_on_screen` container to display
widgets only on some screens.

### Composite widgets

@DOC_wibox_widget_progressbar_encapsulation_EXAMPLE@


### Define widgets inline and place them

* Create a `wibox.widget.textbox` with various properties
* Force the textbox size using `wibox.layout.constraint`
* Add a margin around another textbox
* Add a `wibox.container.background` (for visualization)

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            -- Force the textbox to always be 300 pixel long
            {
                {
                    markup = "<b>Hello World!</b>",
                    align  = "center",
                    widget = wibox.widget.textbox
                },
                bg     = "#ff0000",
                widget = wibox.container.background,
            },
            width    = 300,
            strategy = "min",
            layout   = wibox.layout.constraint
        },
        {
            -- Add a border around the background
            {
                {
                    markup = "Foobar",
                    widget = wibox.widget.textbox
                },
                bg     = "#0000ff",
                widget = wibox.container.background
            },
            left   = 10,
            right  = 10,
            top    = 1,
            bottom = 2,
            layout = wibox.container.margin
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


Result:
![Example2 screenshot](../images/widgetlayout1.png)


### Use a `wibox.layout.align` layout
The `wibox.layout.align` is a little different. While most layouts will
ignore any `nil` lines, the `align` layout relies on them so `left`, `middle`
and `right` can be defined.

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        my_textbox1, -- Left
        nil,         -- Nothing in the middle
        my_textbox2, -- Right
        layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal,
    }



### Define new widgets

New trivial widgets can be created directly in the layout declaration. Here
is a simple circle widget:

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        fit    = function(self, context, width, height)
            return height, height -- A square taking the full height
        end,
        draw   = function(self, context, cr, width, height)
            cr:set_source_rgb(1, 0, 0) -- Red
            cr:arc(height/2, height/2, height/2, 0, math.pi*2)
            cr:fill()
        end,
        layout = wibox.widget.base.make_widget,
    }

Result:
![Example4 screenshot](../images/widgetlayout2.png)

For more information about how to draw widgets, refer to the `Cairo` API:

* [Path](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Paths.html)
* [Context](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-t.html)
* [Pattern](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-cairo-pattern-t.html)
* [transformation](http://cairographics.org/manual/cairo-Transformations.html)
* [Operator](http://cairographics.org/operators/)
* [Pango text](https://developer.gnome.org/pango/stable/)


### Externally defined widgets and layouts

This is useful when the widget is provided by an external module or when it
requires complex manipulations which would make the declaration unreadable.

Code:

    local tb = wibox.widget.textbox()
    tb:set_markup("Hello world! ")

    -- Repeat "tb" 3 times
    s.mywibox : setup {
        tb,
        tb,
        tb,
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }



### Accessing widgets

For each widget or container, it is possible to add an `identifier` attribute
so that it can be accessed later.

Widgets defined using `setup` can be accessed using these methods:

* Avoiding the issue by using externally created widgets
* Using `my_wibox.my_first_widget.my_second_widget` style access
* Using JavaScript like `my_wibox:get_children_by_id("my_second_widget")[1]`

The first method mixes the imperative and declarative syntax, and makes the code
less readable. The second is a little verbose and only works if every node in
the chain has a valid identifier. The last one doesn't require long paths,
but it is not easy to get a specific instance if multiple widgets have the
same identifier.

WARNING: The widget identifier must not use a reserved name. This includes all
method names, existing widget attributes, `layout` and `widget`. Names should
also respect the Lua variable conventions (case-sensitive, alphanumeric,
underscore characters and non-numeric first character).

Code:

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            id     = "second",
            widget = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        {
            id     = "third",
            widget = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        id     = "first",
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }

    s.mywibox.first.second:set_markup("changed!")
    s.mywibox:get_children_by_id("third")[1]:set_markup("Also changed!")



### Extending the system

This system is very flexible. Each section attribute (the entries with string
keys) is directly linked to the layout or widget API. When setting the
imaginary `myproperty`, it will first check if `set_myproperty` exists. If it
doesn't, it will check if there is a `myproperty` method. Finally, it will
just set the `mywidget.myproperty` directly in case it is used later or
caught by a Lua `metatable` (operator overload).

Code:

    -- "Monkeypatch" a new function to 3 widget classes to add vicious
    -- extension support
    for _, wdg in ipairs {
        wibox.widget.textbox , wibox.widget.progressbar, wibox.widget.graph
    } do
        function wdg:vicious(args)
            local f = unpack or table.unpack -- Lua 5.1 compat
            vicious.register(self, f(args))
        end
    end

    s.mywibox : setup {
        {
            vicious = {vicious.widgets.cpu, "CPU: $1%", 3},
            widget  = wibox.widget.textbox
        },
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
    }


In this example, the system is extended so that the popular
[Vicious](https://github.com/vicious-widgets/vicious) extension module can be
used directly in the layout declaration. This example will update the textbox
every 3 seconds to show the CPU usage.


### Handling sections

The system allows sections to be defined externally, then composed into
the final layout declaration. Here is an example re-using one of the above
example:

Code:

    local circle = {
        fit    = function(self, context, width, height)
            return height, height -- A square taking the full height
        end,
        draw   = function(self, context, cr, width, height)
            cr:set_source_rgb(1, 0, 0) -- Red
            cr:arc(height/2, height/2, height/2, 0, math.pi*2)
            cr:fill()
        end,
        layout = wibox.widget.base.make_widget,
    }

    -- Define a layout with the imperative syntax
    local l = wibox.widget.align()

    -- 3 circle
    s.mywibox : setup {
        circle,
        circle,
        circle,
        l,
        layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal
    }

    -- This can be done instead
    local three_circle = {layout = wibox.layout.align.horizontal}
    for i=1, 3 do
        table.insert(three_circle, circle)
    end

    s.mywibox : setup (three_circle)

### Instantiation rules

Whenever it can, Awesome tries to be asynchronous. This can take various form
depending on the situation. For example, the `connect_signal` method allows to
execute code when an event arrives. `awful.screen.connect_for_each_screen` also
allows to instantiate various elements when a new screen is added. In the later
case, it is why some widgets are added as properties to other objects instead of
being global variables like in previous versions of Awesome.

However, there is a case where this isn't enough and another abstract widget has
to be used. This concept is called the `widget_template` and is an optional
property of many widgets such as the `awful.widget.taglist`,
`awful.widget.tasklist` and `naughty.layout.box`. These templates are a
**table** using the exact same syntax as the declarative widgets, but without
the `wibox.widget` prefix in front of the curly braces. These templates
represents future widgets that will be created by their parent widget. This is
necessary for three reasons:

 * The widget must create many instances of the template at different points in
   time.
 * The widget data is only partially available and other fields must be set
   at a later time (by the parent widget).
 * The code is highly redundant and some of the logic is delegated to the parent
   widget to simplify everything.
