# My first awesome

This little tutorial is for people who never used a tiling window manager before
and don't have fancy hacking skills. We will explore the awesome world of
awesome step by step and finally come up with a working desktop, providing some
basic knowledge on how to configure awesome in the process. We will start with
the default `rc.lua` that comes with awesome, play around a little and try to
make it more beautiful and useful with widgets. For this tutorial you don't need
any programming skills besides using a text editor.

## Explore awesome

I will assume that you properly installed awesome through your distribution's
package manager or compiled it from source. You should now add `exec awesome` to
your `~/.xinitrc`. As already mentioned, awesome provides a default config file
which will be our starting point. You will usually find this `rc.lua` file in
`/etc/xdg/awesome/`. Copy it to `~/.config/awesome/`, and then start X (for
example by running `startx`).

Move your mouse to the upper left corner and click on the awesome logo. A little
menu opens. Browse through the menu, then click the logo again to close it. Next
to the awesome menu you see numbers 1-9. These are your tags (or desktops if you
want). You can click on these to change them but nothing will happen because we
have not opened any programs. On the top right you see the time/date and a
symbol showing the current layout. You can also click on the symbol to change
the active layout.

One of awesome's big advantages over other tiling window managers is its good
mouse support. Awesome can act as a full floating window manager (almost like
openbox) if you want. For this basic tutorial we will mainly focus on keyboard
control, so let's learn some key bindings now.

Let's open a terminal: press *Mod4+Enter*. Mod4 is your "Windows key", the key
between Ctrl and Alt. You can change the modkey if you want, but we'll get to
that later. An `xterm` window will pop up. You can of course use your favourite
terminal if you like. Again, more on that later. Now press *Mod4+Shift+c* to
close the terminal. This is the command which lets you close any application.
Awesome has an elegant way to launch programs: press *Mod4+r*. Now you will
see a **Run:** prompt in the status bar. Start anything you like, it also
features Tab-completion!

Open more applications to see the tiling features.
You can now press *Mod4+Space* to cycle through all the possible tiling (and
floating) layouts. Note that the icon in the upper right changes.

Also try *Mod4+h*, *Mod4+l*, *Mod4+Shift+h* and *Mod4+Shift+l* to resize
windows. You can also resize with *Mod4+Button3* (right click). *Mod4+f* will
make your current window fullscreen.

With *Mod4+Number* (1-9) you can browse through your tags. With
*Mod4+Shift+Number* (1-9) you can send a window to a specific tag. *Mod4+Left*
and *Mod4+Right* moves to the next tag in the specified direction.

Use *Mod4+k* and *Mod4+j* to change your focused client - moving your mouse will
also do that.

*Mod4+Shift+q* quits awesome, but don't do that now.

For an overview of all key bindings, press *Mod4+s*. Pressing any key closes
this overview again.

If you are a Vim user, try this: Press *Mod4+r* for the run prompt, enter
`gvim` and press *Enter* to start it. Now press *Mod4+s*  again. The key binding
overview now also provides a cheat sheet for controlling Vim.

## Change the theme

Awesome has four themes you can choose from: *default*, *sky*, *xresources*, and
*zenburn*.

To change the theme, open your rc.lua and edit this line near the beginning of
the file:

    beautiful.init(gears.filesystem.get_dir("config") .. "/themes/default/theme.lua")

For this tutorial we will stick with the default theme.

Now we will customize the theme. Copy
`/usr/share/awesome/themes/default/theme.lua` to `~/.config/awesome/` and change
the above line in your theme like this (remember to replace `USER` with your
user name):

    beautiful.init("/home/USER/.config/awesome/theme.lua")

### Change the background image

Your desktop background image is handled in your theme file. To change it, edit
this line in your theme file:

    beautiful.get().wallpaper = "/usr/share/awesome/themes/default/background.png"

## Personalize your layouts

To optimize our workflow, we now want to give names to our tags and set the
specific tiling or floating mode for each of them.
Open your `rc.lua` and find the layouts section. It should look like this:

    awful.layout.layouts = {
        awful.layout.suit.floating,
        awful.layout.suit.tile,
        awful.layout.suit.tile.left,
        awful.layout.suit.tile.bottom,
        awful.layout.suit.tile.top,
        awful.layout.suit.fair,
        awful.layout.suit.fair.horizontal,
        awful.layout.suit.spiral,
        awful.layout.suit.spiral.dwindle,
        awful.layout.suit.max,
        awful.layout.suit.max.fullscreen,
        awful.layout.suit.magnifier,
        awful.layout.suit.corner.nw,
        -- awful.layout.suit.corner.ne,
        -- awful.layout.suit.corner.sw,
        -- awful.layout.suit.corner.se,
    }

These are all possible tiling and floating layouts awesome has. If you don't
find all of them useful, you can comment some of them out by adding "--"
to the beginning of the line. Awesome already comes with three layouts which are
not used in the default config, as you can see above.

## Personalize your tags

Next, we want to name our tags. This is the default tag creation with numbers
from 1 to 9:

    -- Each screen has its own tag table.
    awful.tag({ "1", "2", "3", "4", "5", "6", "7", "8", "9" }, s, awful.layout.layouts[1])

Now we want to change the tag names and assign a specific layout to each of
them. By default, each tag has a floating layout (the first entry in the
`layouts` table). To change this, we define a specific layout for each tag.

Replace the above with this code:

    -- Each screen has its own tag table.
    local names = { "main", "www", "skype", "gimp", "office", "im", "7", "8", "9" }
    local l = awful.layout.suit  -- Just to save some typing: use an alias.
    local layouts = { l.floating, l.tile, l.floating, l.fair, l.max,
        l.floating, l.tile.left, l.floating, l.floating }
    awful.tag(names, s, layouts)

We use `layouts` to set the layout for each tag. Edit this as you like.

## Some global settings

While we are at it, we can also change the default terminal, editor and assign
the modkey to a different key:

    terminal = "xterm"
    editor = os.getenv("EDITOR") or "nano"
    [â€¦]
    modkey = "Mod4"

Change these settings to your liking. They are pretty self-explanatory and
well-documented in the comments.

## Wrapping up

Save your `rc.lua` and restart awesome (*Mod4+Ctrl+r*). Now the modifications
done above should be applied.

Note that any mistakes in your `rc.lua` can cause problems. You can save
yourself some trouble by using `Xephyr` to test your changes.

Open a terminal and run the following command:

    Xephyr :5 & sleep 1 ; DISPLAY=:5 awesome

A new window will appear and a new awesome instance runs inside of it.

## Add widgets

Before the following line:

    mylauncher = awful.widget.launcher({ image = beautiful.awesome_icon,

Add this to create a new widget:

    praisewidget = wibox.widget.textbox()
    praisewidget.text = "You are great!"

The widget still needs to be added to a wibar. For this, find the definition of
your wibar and change it as follows:

    { -- Left widgets
        layout = wibox.layout.fixed.horizontal,
        mylauncher,
        praisewidget, -- This line is new
        s.mytaglist,
        s.mypromptbox,
    },

This gives you a basic idea on how to add a widget. For an overview of available
widgets and how to arrange them, please read @{03-declarative-layout.md}.

## Further reading

To learn more about the individual parts of the default configuration file,
please look at @{05-awesomerc.md}.
